---
layout: post
title:  'Day 19: From Arnhem to Den Haag'
date:   2019-04-29
img:  notulips.jpg # Add image post (optional)
tags: [Blog, Road Bike]
author: Moritz Beller # Add name author (optional)
---

For my first training session of the day, I again started with
intervals. 'Cause I think for something to have a bit of an effect,
you have to do it quite a few times. So I again did my trusty 5 times
3 minute max efforts. What was quite funny to see was that there was a
person (with a yellow vest) warning people of a section cut into the
bike path (and yes, there was no road in the vicinity). Very nice
touch. I wasn't quite able to find the route from last time (roadworks +
time pressure + no navigation set + me trying to find a brilliant
shortcut) but found a street that was just long enough to go all-out
for 3 minutes, then turn and go the other way. And so on. This time,
my heart rate peaked at 175bpm, still 15 bpm [short of its supposed
maximum](/intervals). But perhaps this kind of effort (as opposed to
say, a gradual power build-up) does not lend itself toward maxing-out
the heart rate. Either way, in the end, I was pretty surprised I even
did 27k! Wow! I did hold back just a little bit, knowing there would
be another ride in the evening. Unfortunately, I arrived late for
lunch, which caused some distress.

The second part was to inspect the tulip fields around Lisse again
with Timea. Sad to report that by this time, most tulips are
gone. This last ride of the day was also pretty darn cold. One way
about other bikers here, and e-bikers in particular. Writing this a
couple of days later, and I am still agitated. Today, while riding
casually with Timea, we had three close-ish encounters.

> On the bike path, no one hears or sees you scream.

First one with a group of e-riders who wanted to turn right while we
were overtaking them. But we also wanted to go right. So we basically
had the same situation as a merging traffic lane on the highway. Timea
gets in between two riders in front of me, no problem, so zig-zag
pattern dictates I leave a spot free for an e-biker and merging in the
convenient gap between the next two. Except for that the biker behind
me had not noticed me and starts screaming "Ey Man" (I assume they
were a group of German tourists. This is what a kid would say when you
splash water at them in German). The second one is an older gentleman
approaching the biking lane of a roundabout with high speed. We were
already in the roundabout, and the little arrows on his stretch of the
road meant that he, merging into the roundabout, has to give
way. Except for if you are on an e-bike apparently. Sure, the guy
stayed on the right side of the track and wasn't crossing, but despite
the fact that I shouted, no reaction. I mean, he neither looked nor
would he have been able to stop at all. Five minutes later, a group of
e-bikers is getting back on the road as we pass them. Person third in
line looks me straight in the eye as she starts (the first two didn't
even care to look for traffic from the back), and just continues
merging onto the bike path nevertheless, forcing Timea and me to an
emergency brake. Seriously?!


> I am definitely not doing everything right, but how some road users
  behave downright scares me.

On the way home, my speed and cadence sensor started flashing
aggressively, so I guess that means its (first) battery is running
out. Shouldn't be a big deal to change.


**Interval Training**

<iframe height='405' width='590' frameborder='0'
allowtransparency='true' scrolling='no'
src='https://www.strava.com/activities/2327772664/embed/2e849806c61898b9f9773da97bf2fbe676a8ba25'></iframe>


**(No-)Tulip Ride**

<iframe height='405' width='590' frameborder='0'
allowtransparency='true' scrolling='no'
src='https://www.strava.com/activities/2328747860/embed/91546644f1da710e3f4e3108e715edf80be5c04a'></iframe>
